Websocket sample (#69)
fission/blog.fission.io: content/websocket-sample.md

+++
title = "Fission WebSocket Sample"
date = "2021-06-11T10:50:51+05:30"
author = "Gaurav Gahlot"
description = "Write a serverless broadcast function with NodeJS"
categories = ["Fission", "Serverless", "Application"]
type = "post"
+++

## Introduction

> In this post we will be into how we can develop a simple chat application using Fission functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post we will look be into how we can develop a simple chat application using Fission functions.
```

> Fission's NodeJS environment now has built in support for [WebSocket][1].

Reviewer: Instead of pointing to [1] we can use a format like this where the text becomes clickable:

```suggestion
Fission's NodeJS environment now has built in support for [WebSocket](https://www.npmjs.com/package/websocket).
```

Reviewer: Also probably instead if NodeJS's package, we should point to websocket protocol info page?

Author: - The text is clickable now as well. 
- Should we point to this doc? https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455

Reviewer: Oh wow, TIL!

So, we are going to use this environment to power our simple web based chat application.

Let's first understand how this is going to work.

![architecture](../../../images/fission-websocket-sample.png)

- We start by creating a NodeJS environment using the [fission/nodejs-env][2] Docker image.
- Then we create a fission function for with [broadcast.js][3].
It is this piece of code that will broadcast a message to all connected clients.
- Next, we will create an [HTTP trigger][4] for the above created function.
- We then update our chat application to connect over the route, we just created.
- Start the HTTP server to serve the chat application and open two instances of the application in separate browser windows.
- As you send a message from one chat window, the function will be triggered and the message will be broadcasted to all connected clients. 

We will cover two approaches using which you can test this setup.

## Prerequisites

You will need a Kubernetes cluster with Fission installed.
Please follow the [instructions here][5] for installing Fission in your Kubernetes cluster.

> Then, verify that the fission cli is working by using the `fission --version` command.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should mention this will work from Fission 1.13

Reviewer 3: @gauravgahlot This is not resolved yet.

```
fission spec init
```

- Create fission [environment][7] for the function.

```
fission env create \
 --name=nodejs \
 --image=fission/node-env:latest \
 --spec
```

- Create spec for the broadcast [function][8].

```
fission fn create \
 --name=broadcast \
 --env=nodejs \
 --rpp=5 \
 --deploy=broadcast.js \
 --spec
```

- Create spec for [HTTP trigger][4].

```
fission httptrigger create \
 --name=broadcast \
 --url=/broadcast \
 --function=broadcast \
 --spec
```

- Now, we can validate and apply the generated declarative application specifications.

```
fission spec validate
fission spec apply
```

### Chat application

- The fission router is exposed as a service.
If you are running a kind cluster, you must get the node internal IP and router service port.

```
kubectl get nodes -o wide
kubectl get svc -n fission -l application=fission-router
```

- Edit the `index.html` and update the connection URL at line `32`.

```
...
conn = new WebSocket("ws://<node-internal-ip>:<router-svc-node-port>/broadcast");
...
```

- Run the HTTP server that will serve the chat application.

```
python3 -m http.server 8080

> ```

Reviewer: It be ideal is if the user does not have to run a server manually locally. You can write a simple UI function which is deployed inside Fission itself and that one connects to Backend NodeJS App. The bank sample repo has examples of how to deliver a HTML file using a fission function!

+++
title = "Fission WebSocket Sample"
date = "2021-06-11T10:50:51+05:30"
author = "Gaurav Gahlot"
description = "Write a serverless broadcast function with NodeJS"
categories = ["Fission", "Serverless", "Application"]
type = "post"
+++

## Introduction

In this post we will look into how we can develop a simple chat application using Fission functions.
Fission's NodeJS environment now has built in support for [WebSocket][1].

> So, we are going to use this environment to power our simple web based chat application.

Reviewer 3: Please add link to environment image or github environments repo folder.

- We then update our chat application to connect over the route, we just created.
- Start the HTTP server to serve the chat application and open two instances of the application in separate browser windows.
- As you send a message from one chat window, the function will be triggered and the message will be broadcasted to all connected clients. 

We will cover two approaches using which you can test this setup.

## Prerequisites

You will need a Kubernetes cluster with Fission installed.
Please follow the [instructions here][5] for installing Fission in your Kubernetes cluster.
Then, verify that the fission cli is working by using the `fission --version` command.

## Try it out

In order to try it out, you can either use fission specs provided with the example or manually generate the specs.
We will cover both the approaches in this blog.

### Get router details

- The fission router is exposed as a service.
If you are running a kind cluster, you must get the node internal IP and router service node port.

```
kubectl get nodes -o wide
kubectl get svc -n fission -l application=fission-router
```

- Edit the `web/app.html` and update the connection URL at line `32`.

```
...

> conn = new WebSocket("ws://<node-internal-ip>:<router-svc-node-port>/broadcast");

Reviewer 3: Should we make these as environment variable for function or pass it somehow via K8s configmap/secret ?
Asking user to modify code doesn't sound like good idea. This also means if they have to port application from one cluster to another they would need changes.
